>> Brian Holt: Let's talk a little
bit about local first coz I
think it's a really interesting idea and
Sqlite and
postgres to a different degree are kinda
on the forefront of this movement.
So there's a local first web.dev,
kind of an interesting site
with a lot of different there's Kyle
from Frontend Masters right there.
Nice to see you, Kyle.
There's a bunch of articles on
here on what local first is.
Definitely take a look at
that if you're interested.
I actually gave a presentation.
Let me pull that up.
Postgres, this one.
I just wanted to show you a slide
from this, which was this one.
I'll just make it full screen.
So, this is what we do now, and this is
what I've been showing you how to do,
which is there's a front end that
makes an API call to a backend.
The backend does backend logic and
then it stores to your database.
And that gives data back to your back end
and then that communicates through front
end that I would call that
the conventional web development flow.
The idea behind local first
is you have your front end.
There is a local copy of your database
running in your browser and you're just
reading and writing queries to that
database, not caring really what happened.
So you just save to it and read from it.
Save to it and read from it,
and then in the background,
it's back hauling that data
back to your database, right?
So if I say update user, my name is
now Todd instead of Brian, right?
It's gonna accept that locally.
And say, hey, front end, I got it.
And then behind the scenes, it's gonna
be like, okay, hey, Cloud Database,
they said that this is what
their name is now, right?
And then that's gonna
get synced back to here.
This is saying the local data
is going back to the back end.
And the scenario that I'm talking about
is actually going to the database, right?
So it's directly talking to Terso.
It's not talking to your back end,
which is cool.
Why is this interesting?
It seems like more steps
than what we already have.
Well, when you read something locally,
it's significantly faster, right?
If someone says hey, show me all of
the artists, and it's just instant, and
it doesn't have to hit any
API you're shaving minimum,
200 milliseconds off of that, right?
Maximum, several seconds off of that.
That's why local first is
super compelling to me,
is that it makes the user's experience so
much better, so much faster.
You can literally cut
seconds off of the wire,
which I think is extremely
interesting to me, cool.
>> Brian Holt: So
I wanna show you how to do it.
Turso has this as like
a first class support.
Another one that you might
look at is ElectricSQL.
>> Brian Holt: This is the same idea,
but done with Postgres.
So there's something called PG light,
which as you might imagine,
is similar to SQLite,
which is invented at NEON.
It's pretty cool company I hear.
You write, read, write, locally to
a Postgres database that runs in your
browser, and then it syncs that
to your back end services.
That's Postgres as well.
So that's another one to keep an eye on.
ElectricSQL is its own company that's
doing some interesting things, so
definitely worth a look there as well.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so what I wanna
do now is we're going to make it so
we can run local first in our code here.
So I want you to clear here.
We're gonna run SQLD.
>> Brian Holt: SQLD, but
we have to do it with this
--grpc-listen-addr=127.0.0.1:5,001, and
that's basically saying, I'm gonna be
expecting someone to be syncing with me.
Here's my exposed address for doing that.
>> Brian Holt: That should just work,
okay?
>> Brian Holt: And then now I want you
to go take a look at in your code,
invoice stash, local first.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, you're gonna
see here we have this Create Client.
This is the official SDK from
turtle that I was talking about.
Here you're creating a client,
you're giving it the URL where you want to
install locally, coz again, local first,
you have to give it a file.
If you don't give it a file, it's just
gonna go directly to the cloud database,
which is not what we want right now.
We want a local file,
we want it to call local data.
We're gonna tell it where to sync, which
is that GRPC address we gave, port 5001.
And sync period is how frequently it up,
updates 60.
I don't know how frequent that is, but
it's the number that was in their doc.
So that's what I took and
then you say, sync.
That's it the end.
That's all the code that you
have to add to get local first.
This is why I find this so compelling,
is that it's a good developer experience,
this is cool, right?
That I only had to do this and it should
in theory make our users stuff faster.
So openserver.js,
I need you to uncomment this line,
registerInvoiceLocalFirst, and
then this line here,
fastify.register, and
Invoice local first, okay?
You should be able to save that and
then here we're gonna say npm run dev.
This will start our server.
>> Brian Holt: And you will see
here this line here frames synced.
I think I had already run this first.
Some of you, I imagine most
people will see a number here.
You might see 581 here or
582 or something like that.
You might not as either.
But this is basically saying, hey,
I pulled this many frames down from
the database for you to go ahead and
start reading and writing from.
Now, you can go to localhost/ what's the,
>> Brian Holt:
Localhost/invoicelocalfirst,
give it an ID.
You'll see everything here
is working just fine.
Again, same different thing.
You can also do invoice.
This is the normal one, right?
[LAUGH] this is the error
that we were getting earlier.
Restart your server.
>> Brian Holt: You can go to this one.
You can see it's exactly the same, but if
I go in here and say, invoice-localfirst,
you'll see here exact same thing,
but the difference between that.
This one that you're seeing here and
the other one is that this is all now
running locally entirely on what would
be your back-end app service, right?
As opposed to directly on your database,
right?
So this is keeping a local copy
of your data on your app server,
which is making this faster.
We could make this even faster in theory
by moving this down to our front end, but
we're not gonna do that quite yet.
The code would look very,
very similar to this, though, right?
And then we'd be running escalate and
WebAssembly and so on and so forth.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
You're not gonna notice speed up and
speed because we were already
doing this locally, right?
But a user would not have an extra
round trip to your database,
which is what makes that compelling.
This probably needs to be
a whole course on local first.
If we're being honest,
I think it's really bleeding edge, but
there's compelling value
in that much speed up.
So I think it might be
a thing that catches on.